and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I share actionable
B2B marketing website and SEO tips
useful podcast goodies and resources you
can check it out if you like over at
businessgrowth dot email
so join me today I've got returning
guest Linda Malone Linda's founder over
at the coffee Works Linda welcome back
to the show how are we
good thanks so much for having me On
Again Sam I appreciate it no dramas at
all so we're going to be chatting about
AI using it for copywriting and content
is it how yes or is there no way we
should ever even consider letting Ai and
robots touch our masterful words
um so first and foremost is AI really a
smart idea when it comes to our
copywriting our content
I think we really have a choice you know
whether you're a copywriter like myself
content writer it's there it's all over
you can't avoid it so you know I had put
out a newsletter recently where I said I
went through the the five stages of of
grief with the AI like a denial you know
oh it's not it's not gonna happen anger
you know how can they do this to us and
all of it and now I've come to
acceptance so I feel like it's a matter
of working with it not against it
so for people that are skeptical I mean
to be to be fair I haven't used it a ton
I mean our team use it a bit when we're
putting together certain articles for
Frameworks and stuff with that one
writing yesterday copy myself I've used
it for bits and pieces still yet to get
stuck in and Brace it fully
um but what are for anyone that's I
guess yet to dabble an AI when it comes
to especially producing pen to paper
copy whether that's for their website or
for other means what are the main
advantages that you see
I like it for the number one thing I use
it for is brainstorming right and what I
do is I almost consider it like an
assistant so I keep it open on my I have
two monitor so I keep it open on one
monitor if I run into the even like
defining something I would just pop
something in it's easier than Google the
only thing is it gives me so much
information a lot of times it's Overkill
it's like I I just needed like a simple
sentence but I use it for um and this is
one of the things I've discovered
recently if I get on chat GPT because
that's usually what I use and I use the
um chat gpt4 model so I pay 20 a month
for it because it's supposed to have
better
um better information
if I use that first
I find that it could ruin my own
original ideas so I try to do something
on my own and then toss it to chat GPT
and say can you improve this instead of
starting with it and then kind of being
tainted by what it's already told me
so that's one of the things headlines
subject lines
um yesterday I did something I had not
done yet and it was interesting I had
excuse me written a blog post for a
client and I said can you just check
this for any any vocabulary any you know
typos and it said well we're going to
give you some some gentle like changes
we would recommend and it was
interesting because I didn't expect that
and it came back with um it said you've
used the word there t-h-e-y possibly re
and they are
in different places we recommend you use
consistency which is a great Point
um it did there was no typos but it did
give me some uh grammar Corrections
which actually were intentional on my
part so I ignored them because it
doesn't
it doesn't it follows strict grammar
rules but not conversational rules
okay yeah yeah makes sense makes sense
so from that side of things we're
talking about are we talking go out
quite literally feeding it in our own
ideas like you mentioned there are
things like headlines perhaps subject
lines for emails
um that kind of thing and then using it
to perhaps polish those whether it's
whether it's check for typos whether
it's make small tweaks incremental
changes is that is that what we're
talking about as as one of the main use
cases
yeah for me it's even with my own
podcast I've put in titles I've come up
with or I've asked for titles and the
more specific you are the better so if
you say I want to use you know these
words and I usually will say
um help me create an engaging
captivating you know title that will
attract marketers like the more specific
you are for who it's for exactly what
words you want to use but it does tend
to overuse certain words like if you ask
for a title or subject line it loves the
word unleash I don't know why
yeah yeah
and and a lot of exclamation points
which is to me it's lazy writing as far
as copy goes you know if you have to use
a lot of exclamation points you need to
look at your copy because that's usually
so it loves that it loves colons it'll
have and and so I will say please
eliminate the colons don't use this word
and then it comes back with something I
end up combining a bunch of them is
usually how I end up with the the
finished title but yeah I don't know why
it loves that word so much but yeah okay
what would you say are some of the
drawbacks some of the negatives that
you've seen from using it so far
really just the overuse of certain words
and that it it pulls from the internet
obviously so you're gonna get a lot of
what I call marketing speak I did a
whole post on LinkedIn about that went
viral a couple weeks ago because it it
will use the same words over and over it
sounds robotic
there is actually a software I can't
think of the name of it offhand but I'm
sure you could Google it that can check
I will cut and paste something that I
think is written by AI even it's a
comment in LinkedIn and I'll pop it in
there and it'll tell you the percentage
chances that it is written by Ai and the
reason is it uses these same words over
and over
um that's the biggest issue is it
doesn't
it doesn't um produce copy that is
conversational it's just it's
grammatically correct but it's just the
same old stuff so that's the biggest
problem I find yeah yeah I've seen like
a rise in LinkedIn comments as well like
on my posts and other people's posts in
the feed where you can straight away I
don't know what it is we can just see it
say I think they pretty much copy and
paste the person's LinkedIn post into
chat gbt or a similar tool right and
then basically say give me a reply for
this post yeah and then the reply that
they put is usually like a really long
paragraph but it's just basically mixing
and matching what you said with more
jargon confusing words and then saying
at the end great posts um well great
face Linda and it's like exactly yeah
great pose good job yeah it's like you
know it's not somebody a person yeah it
is funny does make me laugh when I see
those in the feed cool so those are some
kind of negatives in terms of what we're
doing
um so what might be quite fun to do to
give the audience something tangible is
if we could perhaps do a step-by-step
maybe through initial research through
to a final piece of copywriting
um what would be the process and feel
free to do that maybe on a headline or I
don't know a cold email or maybe a
website home page you you pick them the
outcome or the medium
but we start with uh kind of initial
foundations right through to end copy
and incorporating AI as you recommend
well I usually start um I don't start
with a headline like say for example if
I'm reading
um see I don't have not used this for
emails because I just don't think
good but if it is a say a blog post sure
I would pull all the research and notes
that I have
interviews even and this is where I
found it's really helpful I'll take like
say this is being recorded I can take
the transcript pop it into Ai and say
pull out the most relevant points what
are some bullet points yeah that is very
helpful
um with us a client recently I had she
wanted me to write a landing page for
her and she had four personas and I said
how am I going to write this so and it's
for a homepage so I had to include all
of them I took all the personas threw it
into chat and said what are the
similarities between these four and it
came up with
some really great points something that
I said what is overlapping with all
these these audiences so I would start
with getting all my research kind of
organized that way pulling out but you
also have to go back in and check
because it has missed some points that I
I've seen this a few times I've had to
go back in and say okay it didn't
capture this didn't capture so you have
to double check it but you can get a
basic outline for how and you can ask it
okay how should I structure this post
what makes sense and again the more
specific you know the better so it it
will come up with okay start with an
overall view here and it'll break it out
it's great for that
so yeah yeah I know um I know when we
had you on the show before you gave us
kind of a walk through on doing certain
pieces of research before you actually
dive in and do any copywriting at all
um now in terms of the actual research
that we want to feed into chat GPT or
similar tool on know you said you can
pull call recordings and this Landing
case instance you had four personas that
you put in there and it kind of put them
all the similarities together are there
certain pieces of research that you are
kind of always something that you
recommend that people do in a B2B space
before they actually go ahead and dive
into any copy whether they're writing
out themselves using AI Assistance or
whatever
um I'm not sure if I have I'm answering
this right but the interviews that I do
with customers
that I find is really helpful especially
if you use something I use fireflies to
record okay and script I'll take the
whole thing it saves a ton of time
um that's really the first thing I do
um
so if I'm writing say for example like
like I said a blog post I don't do a lot
of blog let's just say a landing page
and I want to pull out the challenges
that's the one of the things you can do
what
from all these interviews what are the
biggest challenges
that this audience has that I've done
and has been very helpful the other
thing is you can ask it what are the
biggest objections and that you can get
even more General and just you don't
have to use your research for that as I
mean you can use it as part of it but I
did this yesterday I said if I am
selling it's just something I was
thinking about if I'm selling a
copywriting course to marketers what
will be the biggest objections to this
audience and it came up with you know
pricing or the fact that everyone has
this and and so those are the things
that I know I'm gonna have to tackle in
my copy okay so if I mean does that make
sense so it's like I don't want to know
yeah because if you're using copywriting
you're using say for the most simple one
pain agitation and solution you want to
find what are the pain points you know
what are some specifics the specifics I
think are ones you really have to do on
your own because you need to talk to
people and that's something chat can't
do you know yeah
yeah yeah okay so in that case you're
putting the cool transcripts uploading
and upload them into a tool like chat
GPT and then you're giving it quite
specific prompts like pull out the
challenges that are raised often in
these cool recordings or pull out the
objections from these cool transcripts
um okay so it's literally giving you a
list you don't have to listen to it back
and then you can kind of get the bullet
points I guess and then collect those
all together right and then you can dive
further sometimes what you can also do
is take something that it said and say
can you expand on this like what you
know ask it for more details it's a
conversation it's sort of weird
sometimes because like yesterday when I
popped in the thing for my vocabulary
can you get any spelling and it said
well we're going to help you with you
know it's like it has no emotion so it
was just funny we're gonna help you
fine-tune this there's some things that
can make can improve this copy and I'm
like wait a minute and ask you to do
that
it's almost like if it's a person you
would take offense but it's a computer
so you know I mean
it's AI so
and when you're doing that like when
you've asked it for specific things like
putting out challenges putting out
common objections putting out pain
points
as there's ever been a time where what
is pulled out has been complete nonsense
or they're generally pretty on point
with what you remember from the calls
that you've had
no it's it's on point it's just
sometimes too General okay yeah like
it'll it'll give me a general idea but
that's when I have to go back into the
original conversation and find what
exactly did they say
because the specifics are really what
make copy you know it goes from good to
great you have to really know what you
know
because it says oh they're they're busy
people well what how are they busy you
know do they have families are they yeah
you know are they corporate Executives
what is it that makes them busy so
details it's not good at nice going into
the detail of each point got it
um let's carry on with the landing page
theme are there anything else that we
should be doing from a research
perspective so as well as using the cool
transcripts and
perhaps personas if there's anything
else you want to add into that is there
anything else we can use from a research
perspective with AI front or is that all
the things we should consider one of the
things that's I've found really helpful
is to compare your competitors
you can ask it but you have to keep in
mind that AI is two years behind so
they're not going to have the most
recent recent but you can take say
SAS companies
you can ask what are the top three or
five
um most well-known SAS companies and be
more specific than that and then
um you can break that down further what
are their differences and you can ask
chat GPT to put it in a table which I
never knew you could do that please
organize this and compare them and it
will list what their attributes and
features are and almost like when you go
to a sales page and it has a check marks
if you buy the basic program if you buy
the moderate you know the high price it
will tell you I've only done this a
couple times but just
what all the competition is doing and
where they are the same and where they
are different so creating a table is
something I don't think most people know
you know about and that's helpful for
comparison especially with your
competition or your clients competition
you know
you know something like keywords even
you might know about that yeah yeah yeah
yeah for sure for sure
um and it's that in terms of actually
comparing competitors is that more so
you can do research and Analysis of what
they're doing and things that you might
be able to approve in in our case on
improve on our landing page or is that
right we're quite literally putting into
the page itself or what what are some
nice nice ways you can leverage that
data from your experience
and talk about how your product is
different
you know this is excuse me we have like
dust in the air over here it's been
really bad
um
talk about how you're this is what is
out there and this is how we're
different or even
um using it as an objection like say
um everyone does a certain thing you
know and why you don't do it
um and and just it gives you leverage in
the way that you're bringing that out
because they're gonna if they're
shopping around they're not ready to buy
and they're comparing products that's
what they're going to be doing so you
want to bring out okay I know what you
know the other guys are doing and this
is why we are not or this is why we're
doing it better or but you it's it
enables you to kind of
approach the objection and address it
before yeah before they shop around and
say well they don't do this
definitely makes sense especially in the
B2B space I mean especially with higher
ticket offers whether that's a service
whether that's a piece of tech a piece
of SAS software I mean most of most
companies are going to compare three or
so vendors as a minimum so it kind of
makes sense if you can bring those
points up early if you can know what the
competition is doing then address your
points of differentiation it's always
going to be a always going to be an
advantage to leverage for sure
um are there anything else that we
should be doing on the research side of
things before we actually go ahead and
kind of put to the copy together in our
landing page example or those are the
main ones just a cautionary thing is
it's when it comes to because a big part
of what I do in my research is to go
into social
and social media is not at strong point
it'll and it'll pop up with a caveat hey
you know we're two years behind I mean
two years is an eternity in social media
so that I think you still need to do
manually just to pull out what people
because I I get a lot of information
great info on like Reddit I'll go on
quora what are people saying about this
particular thing
chat I don't think last I checked it
didn't do that
so that's um the other thing and then
pulling out um
quotes from your customers or clients
because sometimes they'll stand up on
headlines because they're so good yeah
that's something you still want to go in
and do just make sure you get it right
nice nice
um in terms of taking this like refined
information that AI has given us so from
our cool recordings we've pulled up
pulled out a bunch of things let's say
like
we've defined kind of the common things
across the different client personas
we've got we've pulled out a bunch of
specific and crispy challenges
objections and pain points from our core
recordings perhaps we've compared some
of our competitors got a bit of an
analysis we've got all this data
but I'd imagine that's quite a lot of
info and that might just look like a
wall of text on a landing page so how do
you what's your process lender for
taking that information then actually I
mean feel free to start from the Top If
You Wish in terms of kind of putting
that into a headline and then the body
copy about how do we process that into
something that's actually going to
resonate with our Target prospects and
ultimately convert I guess
I mean you definitely want to approach
the challenges of what they are going
through and the thing is SAS um a lot of
times it's it doesn't follow the pain
agitation solution format
there's many different there's like 20
something different
um copywriting formulas you can use if
you're using
pain agitation solution what I would
suggest is what I do is I start with the
pain points in the middle of the page I
don't even touch the headline because
that's the heart you want to spend the
most time on the headline because you've
heard this a million times 80 percent of
people
will not even read past the headline so
you want to make sure that that is
really powerful so you get
the the main challenge is down
and make sure you address them so it's
like you know here's what you're dealing
with that would be the pain points then
the agitation is really getting into
how it's affecting their daily life or
their daily business you know for
example I have a client who he um has a
SAS company where he takes paper forms
and he converts into Mobile a mobile app
that's what they do so the pain point is
you have reams of paper
their numbers are getting transposed you
have to stay up till midnight and this
was from an actual interview with one of
his customers to you know upload all
this information instead of just taking
out your phone and popping it into a
mobile app so I would get into what it
really looks like staying up into you
know until midnight um transposing
numbers you know messing up everything
in accounting and then okay but now
here's how this can help you so then you
get in with the solution
and then I go back
so then you talk about why
you can and how you can solve that
problem and then I would look at all
that and pull out what is
the most powerful
um point that you can make that that
might make the hero and I said that
might because a lot of times we use the
value prop
for okay the hero so it depends on the
client depends on the product you know
it's really sure case by case and
sometimes they just the client will
prefer a particular thing and it's not
right or wrong you can always change it
and then the solution and then you have
you know so it's that's the three main
parts and then the call to action of
course is
something we talked about in the last
interview which is not don't put learn
more because learn sounds like work you
want to say
complete the sentence I want to schedule
a demo
um talk to you know talk to someone
um anything other than learn more is how
I have been taught by my copywriting
coaches you just even though people use
it a lot
it's kind of a
a fallback that you know you can do
better so what do you really want people
to do what what are they going to find
on the other side of that button yeah
yeah that makes sense
um in terms of what you started with
starting Midway kind of using those pain
points that are raised the problems and
then agitating them
um were you finding do you find or do
you recommend that listeners
kind of quite literally take the points
if they deciphered them from a
transcript and then chat gbt has
formulated them into some kind of list
that they just kind of put those into
the page or do they need quite a lot of
then human work to decide which ones are
worthy of making the the final landing
page and then do you find that they need
quite a lot of twinking tweaking to
actually make sure they make context and
are gonna kind of hit home with your
prospects that are landing on this page
yeah I mean definitely have to edit them
and sometimes they repeat things
um
I mean there's there's nothing you can't
completely just sidestep and cut and
paste I just wouldn't recommend that
because it
it takes um as I said earlier it's
really you know writing conversationally
you don't want to sound like a bot so
how would your
customers say this how or how would you
know how would you tell somebody about
this if you wouldn't use those words and
it shouldn't be in your copy that's the
other thing is is chat GPT tends to use
a lot of
not big words in the way that people
don't understand it but they it doesn't
write at a fifth grade reading level
which is what's recommended for 93 of
your readers can read at that level and
when I've asked it to do it she comes up
with something almost Dr Seuss like it's
like no
um yeah it doesn't even understand that
you need to go in and just and it's not
just a matter of the words you're using
you have to shorten sentences that's the
other thing is you want to shorten
sentences have a combination of short
and long sentences all the same Lane
sentences is equivalent to speaking in a
monotone voice it's just drones on and
on so you want to vary that but yeah you
never just cut and paste from from chat
I mean I wouldn't
got it yeah it makes perfect sense okay
um in terms of kind of the titles you're
mentioning a bit about not necessarily
going the hero area and the title area
not necessarily going with kind of
feature-led
um could you dive a bit more detail into
kind of any AI prompts you use there or
is that more once you've worked on that
body copy and with the pain agitation
and solution formula then you decide
kind of what makes sense is the headline
or any tips around that
I actually have and I can send you the
link you can include if you want to show
notes there's a headline analyzer
and I don't know it offhand but it's one
I've been using lately and it will tell
you it'll break it apart and tell you
what you know how good it is and I I
usually will use that so I'll start with
um coming up with my own ideas I'll put
it into chat I want to include these
words this is the audience
um it tends to make long ones so I'll
say limited to five words
and if if that that's usually more for
emails and then I will go into the
headline analyzer with maybe the three
top ones yeah and see which one
resonates the most
and it's a process I mean it's not
something that you just want to throw
out there because it you know
people aren't aren't going to read
anything if they don't get past your
headline so yeah yeah and they don't no
doubt um and we've talked quite a lot
about kind of long form copy in terms of
in our case our example we've walked
through a landing page any nice use
cases that you found or any lesser known
use cases Linda
um in terms of short form copy or
anything like that really attention
grabbing stuff or really simplified copy
that you kind of used AI for
I've tried it for LinkedIn posts
um I will take one as that's really you
know when you've been as consistent I
mean I've been on LinkedIn for going on
three years now so I have hundreds of
posts and I will take a post that's been
popular and I want to repurpose it so I
pop it in
can you reward this but keep the same
you know just
I'm usually not happy with it I have yet
to find it really do a great job but
sometimes it'll just get me thinking
like okay I can because it'll start
adding the marketing speak it'll start
adding exclamation points where I don't
want it I'm sure it'll have the word
unleash in there somewhere I just don't
it's like all right this doesn't sound
like me anymore
um but sometimes it'll just give me
ideas it's I may not use the ideas it
presents but it'll help um
but that I found it can be helpful
emails again
um
I'm not big on on it because you have
such a short time to capture somebody's
attention especially now there's been a
lot of talk on LinkedIn about don't send
me your AI email because I'm gonna call
you out on it so people are doing it but
LinkedIn post is really the only way the
only other way I'm using it yeah I mean
from what I've seen it's great to kind
of feed your past content and then serve
you ideas
bring up inspiration like you said use
use for research to collate ideas and
then get shortened points or get
summaries or give it prompts to get
ideas from other use case perspectives
or Persona perspectives and stuff like
that but certainly I haven't got this
feature yet but I know LinkedIn are
rolling out an AI feature because one of
the other owners at webchoice showed me
and he was showing me some posts for it
about like in his case he was trying to
do an SEO post and it basically just did
a paragraph like SEO is search engine
optimization it's getting your website
top of organic search it's the top spots
in Google the non-paid listing so I was
like yeah it sounds like a robot took
this so I think it's
that's good thing about LinkedIn is
everyone kind of writes about their
expertise but they put their point of
view on it and I think that's what it's
missing the point of view element of
what someone's opinion is with their own
hot take with their own thoughts and two
cents and emotions it doesn't have
emotions exactly and that's what gets
people to decide I mean it's probably
the number one thing is how are you
going to write something if you if
people don't feel anything they don't
take any action and and you know chat
can't do that and it even says I asked
it before this this interview I was
popping in like what are some of the you
know the negatives
um and I kind of as I say I I make chat
GPT punch itself in the face it's like
what where are you lacking information
um and so it says that we you know
creativity and originality emotional
intelligence doesn't have intuition it
doesn't have
um tone and voice consistency these are
all things people have to add you know
and and that's something it can't do
which hopefully it never can but I don't
know I was gonna say do you think in
like for example they've recently rolled
out that conversation I can't remember
the tool but there's an AI conversation
posing as a sales rep from Tesla
have you seen that one where where he
basically runs a customer service call
to I'm imagining a website inquiry and
he basically runs it as if he was the
sales rep booking the meeting with the
prospect that was interested in a Tesla
test drive and it's it sounds good but
it's not quite a human level so for
example when the prospect responds
there's like a three second delay so
almost a natural delay and then he kind
of repeats some of the stuff but it's
nearly there to say in five five years
time these these um AI machines could
definitely I reckon make cold calls and
almost be fluent
um as a human so it'll be interesting to
see how this is going to impact copy or
do you think it never will in terms of
kind of some of these things that we've
talked about with human emotional
element
I don't know I mean I don't think it's
going to take five years I mean last
year at this time I never heard of chat
GPT now look at it you know it's all
over and then I heard something I saw a
news
um story about
how people they can use AI to bring back
people who've passed on like you're they
will take recordings of people who died
and I mean to me that was okay now we're
getting into the creepy creepy bit scary
isn't it yeah you know so who knows I
just hope there's always a need for real
people because
otherwise I might have a job so I
believe that there's always going to be
um some human element involved and
yeah I got on a chat bot the other day
with a healthcare provider it was
obviously a chat bot and they said now
we're going to get a human to come in
and answer your questions and it was
another chat bot I could tell I'm like
okay I can't talk to a person apparently
so oh dear there we go
um yeah just to summarize lennis we've
worked for a nice summary of kind of how
you can use AI for research implementing
it on examples like a landing page to
flip it to the other side
as as of now as of the time recording
kind of July 2023 what are the main
things that you should definitely avoid
when it comes to AI what are the main
things you touched on a motion for
example
um or getting a motive of your copy what
are the main things where we really need
to make sure that we keep that human
element and human review and human
implementation
how do we do that or what are the main
things that we shouldn't run through AI
when specifically of copywriting um are
there any that we haven't touched on
where we really need to kind of steer
clear of AI or robots and make sure that
you put your own input when it comes to
getting impact from your copywriting
I think emails are probably the biggest
one like you can have it check your
vocabulary and stuff but I just I just
think you have such a short amount of
time to grab somebody's attention if you
give it away that you're using AI it's
going to really be a turn off before
they even read what you have to say I
wouldn't use it for for emails
um
I mean you always are going to need a
person to interview your customers you
can't do that through AI that's how
you're going to get your best
information
I would just say you always have to
check and double check anything you use
it for because for one information may
not be accurate
um and the other is to keep it
conversational you're always going to
have to tweak it it's just it's just
going to give you the facts and now you
need to break it up and make it sound
like a person and adding emotion to it
would be you know the the challenges and
the pain points
those are things you need to speak to
people about and hopefully you won't be
handing that over to AI yeah yeah
awesome Linda I really appreciate the
conversation as always with that please
do tell us more about how one can
connect with you learn more well I'm on
LinkedIn of course
my website the copyworks.com and I have
a Weekly Newsletter too that where I
send out all different kinds of copy
conversion tips for marketers and
copywriters that's the best place to
find me awesome and we've got all of
those links in the show notes at
businessgrowth.marketing thanks once
again Linda enjoyed the chat thank you
no worries as always if you enjoyed
Today's show a quick review or rating on
your podcast channels appreciate it or
for on YouTube subscribe goes a long way
and with that we'll catch you on the
next one for more actionable B2B
marketing tips to grow your business
grow Revenue catch you soon